Query type defs (#1548)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _opensearch/query-dsl/full-text.md

nav_order: 40
---

# Full-text query types and options

This page lists all full-text query types and common options. There are many optional fields you can use to create subtle search behaviors, so we recommend that you test out some basic query types against representative indexes and verify the output before you do more advanced or complex searches with multiple options.

OpenSearch uses the Apache Lucene search library that provides highly efficient data structures and algorithms for ingesting, indexing, searching, and aggregating data.

To learn more about search query classes, see [Lucene query JavaDocs](https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_9_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/Query.html).

> To convert unstructured text into the format that you need, you can use the text analyzers. To learn more about how to convert unstructured text into structured text that is optimized for search, see [Text analyzers]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/query-dsl/text-analyzers).

Reviewer: This section can be omitted. The queries below analyze the search text automatically.

Author: sure. I do think this is helpful to point them to the page with more information about text analyzers. ok to leave it in? thanks

Reviewer: Sure. But I think we need to differentiate between analyzing the fields when they are indexed and analyzing the search string in the query at query time. If we're referring to the first one, then it's ok to leave as-is but maybe add "at index time". If we're referring to the second one, we have to reword so that the users know that the analysis is happening automatically with all these queries. All they have to do is (optionally) provide an analyzer.

Author: thanks for the additional information. 
ok, i've updated it as follows to clarify: 
The full-text query types shown in this section use the standard analyzer that analyzes text automatically when the query is submitted.

You can also analyze fields when you index them. To learn more about how to convert unstructured text into structured text that is optimized for search, see [Text analyzers]...

Common terms queries and the optional query field `cutoff_frequency` are now deprecated.
{: .note }

## Query types

OpenSearch Query DSL provides multiple query types that you can use in your searches. 
### Match

> Use the `match` query type to specify fields that you want returned in a search. Specify the terms that you want each field to match. Documents that contain that term will be returned in the search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `match` query for full-text search on a specific document field. The `match` query analyzes the provided search string and returns documents that match any of the string's terms.
```

Common terms queries and the optional query field `cutoff_frequency` are now deprecated.
{: .note }

## Query types

OpenSearch Query DSL provides multiple query types that you can use in your searches. 
### Match

> Use the `match` query for full-text search on a specific document field. The `match` query analyzes the provided search string and returns documents that match any of the string's terms.

Reviewer 2: Should "on" be "of"?

    }
  }
}
```

### Multi match

> You can use the `multi_match` query type to search for multiple fields. Multi-match operation functions similarly to the [match](#match) operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `multi_match` query type to search multiple fields. Multi-match operation functions similarly to the [match](#match) operation.
```

}
```

### Match boolean prefix

> You can search for terms that match a specified prefix with the `match_bool_prefix` query type. Documents that contain the last term in the string will be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `match_bool_prefix` query analyzes the provided search string and creates a `bool` query from the the string's terms. It uses every term except the last term as a whole word for matching. The last term is used as a prefix. The `match_bool_prefix` query returns documents that contain either the whole-word terms or terms that start with the prefix term, in any order.
```

}
```

### Match boolean prefix

> The `match_bool_prefix` query analyzes the provided search string and creates a `bool` query from the the string's terms. It uses every term except the last term as a whole word for matching. The last term is used as a prefix. The `match_bool_prefix` query returns documents that contain either the whole-word terms or terms that start with the prefix term, in any order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `match_bool_prefix` query analyzes the provided search string and creates a `bool` query from the string's terms. It uses every term except the last term as a whole word for matching. The last term is used as a prefix. The `match_bool_prefix` query returns documents that contain either the whole-word terms or terms that start with the prefix term, in any order.
```

}
```

For more reference information about prefix queries, see [Lucene documentation](https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_9_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/PrefixQuery.html).
### Match phrase

> Use the `match_phrase` query type to specify a sequence of terms to return in the search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `match_phrase` query to match documents that contain the exact phrase in the specified order. You can add flexibility to phrase matching by providing the `slop` parameter.
```

}
```

> For more reference information about prefix queries, see [Lucene documentation](https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_9_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/PrefixQuery.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more reference information about prefix queries, see the [Lucene documentation](https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_9_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/PrefixQuery.html).
```

### Match phrase

> Use the `match_phrase` query to match documents that contain the exact phrase in the specified order. You can add flexibility to phrase matching by providing the `slop` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `match_phrase` query to match documents that contain an exact phrase in a specified order. You can add flexibility to phrase matching by providing the `slop` parameter.
```

}
```

### Match phrase prefix

> Use the `match_phrase_prefix` query type to specify a sequence of terms with a specified prefix. The documents that contain the phrase you specify will be returned. The last term in the phrase is partially provided as a prefix, so any documents that contain phrases that begin with the prefix for the last term will be returned. 

Reviewer 3: Does this suggestion capture the meaning?
"The last partial term in the phrase is interpreted as a prefix, so any documents that contain phrases that begin with the phrase and prefix on the last term will be returned."

Author: thanks!

> Use the `match_phrase_prefix` query type to specify a sequence of terms with a specified prefix. The documents that contain the phrase you specify will be returned. The last partial term in the phrase is interpreted as a prefix, so any documents that contain phrases that begin with the phrase and prefix on the last term will be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `match_phrase_prefix` query to specify the phrase to match in order. The documents that contain the phrase you specify will be returned. The last partial term in the phrase is interpreted as a prefix, so any documents that contain phrases that begin with the phrase and prefix on the last term will be returned.
```

}
```

### Match phrase prefix

> Use the `match_phrase_prefix` query to specify the phrase to match in order. The documents that contain the phrase you specify will be returned. The last partial term in the phrase is interpreted as a prefix, so any documents that contain phrases that begin with the phrase and prefix on the last term will be returned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `match_phrase_prefix` query to specify a phrase to match in order. The documents that contain the phrase you specify will be returned. The last partial term in the phrase is interpreted as a prefix, so any documents that contain phrases that begin with the phrase and prefix on the last term will be returned.
```

> Use the `match_phrase_prefix` query to specify the phrase to match in order. The documents that contain the phrase you specify will be returned. The last partial term in the phrase is interpreted as a prefix, so any documents that contain phrases that begin with the phrase and prefix on the last term will be returned.

Reviewer 2: Should "on the last term" be "of the last term"?

}
```

### Simple query string

> Use the `query_string_query` type to specify many arguments directly in the query string delineated by regular expressions. Searches with this type will discard any invalid portions of the string.

Reviewer 3: Does this suggested change keep the meaning"
"Use the `query_string_query` type to specify directly in the query string multiple arguments delineated by regular expressions."

`*` | Acts as a wildcard.
`""` | Wraps several terms into a phrase.
`()` | Wraps a clause for precedence.

> `~n` | When used after a term (e.g. `wnid~3`), sets `fuzziness`. When used after a phrase, sets `slop`. [Advanced filter options](##advanced-filter-options).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`~n` | When used after a term (for example, `wnid~3`), sets `fuzziness`. When used after a phrase, sets `slop`. [Advanced filter options](##advanced-filter-options).
```

}
```

### Match all

> The `match_all` query type will return all documents. This type can be useful to test large document sets if you need to return the entire set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `match_all` query type will return all documents. This type can be useful in testing large document sets if you need to return the entire set.
```

  }
}
```
-->
## Advanced filter options

> You can filter your query results by using some of the optional query fields, such as wildcards, fuzzy query fields, and synonyms.

Reviewer: Just a note: You **can** use analyzers as optional query fields (like in the match phrase query above).

Author: added link to how to use analyzers section, as well.

`fuzzy_transpositions` | Boolean | Setting `fuzzy_transpositions` to true (default) adds swaps of adjacent characters to the insert, delete, and substitute operations of the `fuzziness` option. For example, the distance between `wind` and `wnid` is 1 if `fuzzy_transpositions` is true (swap "n" and "i") and 2 if it is false (delete "n", insert "n"). <br /><br />If `fuzzy_transpositions` is false, `rewind` and `wnid` have the same distance (2) from `wind`, despite the more human-centric opinion that `wnid` is an obvious typo. The default is a good choice for most use cases.
`fuzzy_max_expansions` | Positive integer | Fuzzy queries "expand to" a number of matching terms that are within the distance specified in `fuzziness`. Then OpenSearch tries to match those terms against its indexes.

### Synonyms in a multiple terms search

> You can also use synonyms with the `terms` query type to search for multiple terms. Use the `auto_generate_synonyms_phrase_query` Boolean field. By default it is set to `true`. It automatically generates phrase queries for multiple term synonyms. For example, if you have the synonym `"ba, batting average"` and search for "ba," OpenSearch searches for `ba OR "batting average"` (if this option is true) or `ba OR (batting AND average)` (if this option is false).

Reviewer 3: Just a suggestion on this one.
"For example, if you have the synonym `"ba, batting average"` and search for "ba," OpenSearch searches for `ba OR "batting average"` when the option is `true` or `ba OR (batting AND average)` when the option is `false`."

`fuzzy_max_expansions` | Positive integer | Fuzzy queries "expand to" a number of matching terms that are within the distance specified in `fuzziness`. Then OpenSearch tries to match those terms against its indexes.

### Synonyms in a multiple terms search

You can also use synonyms with the `terms` query type to search for multiple terms. Use the `auto_generate_synonyms_phrase_query` Boolean field. By default it is set to `true`. It automatically generates phrase queries for multiple term synonyms. For example, if you have the synonym `"ba, batting average"` and search for "ba," OpenSearch searches for `ba OR "batting average"` when the option is `true` or `ba OR (batting AND average)` when the option is `false`.

> To learn more about the multiple terms query type, see [Terms]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/query-dsl/term/#terms). For more reference information about phrase queries, see [Lucene documentation](https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_9_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/PhraseQuery.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more about the multiple terms query type, see [Terms]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/query-dsl/term/#terms). For more reference information about phrase queries, see the [Lucene documentation](https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_9_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/PhraseQuery.html).
```
